Documentation for SOS (#22117)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/dotnet-sos.md

## Description

> The `dotnet-sos` global tool installs the [SOS debugger extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) allowing inspection of managed .NET Core state from native debuggers like WinDbg/cdb on Windows and lldb on Linux and macOS. Recent versions of the [Windows Debugger](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) (>= version 10.0.18317.1001 of WinDbg or cdb) will load SOS automatically from the Microsoft extension gallery, so installing SOS via the `dotnet-sos` tool is only needed on Linux and macOS or on Windows if using older debugging tools.

Reviewer: There are build warnings being generated because of the link: 

Line 40: [Warning] Link 'https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools' contains locale code 'en-us'. For localizability, remove 'en-us' from links to most Microsoft sites.
```suggestion
The `dotnet-sos` global tool installs the [SOS debugger extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) allowing inspection of managed .NET Core state from native debuggers like WinDbg/cdb on Windows and lldb on Linux and macOS. Recent versions of the [Windows Debugger](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) (>= version 10.0.18317.1001 of WinDbg or cdb) will load SOS automatically from the Microsoft extension gallery, so installing SOS via the `dotnet-sos` tool is only needed on Linux and macOS or on Windows if using older debugging tools.
```

## Description

> The `dotnet-sos` global tool installs the [SOS debugger extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) allowing inspection of managed .NET Core state from native debuggers like lldb and windbg.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `dotnet-sos` global tool installs the [SOS debugger extension](sos-debugging-extension.md). This extension lets you inspect managed .NET Core state from native debuggers like lldb and windbg.
```

> > [!NOTE] Installing SOS via the `dotnet-sos` tool is only needed on Linux or macOS.  It may also be needed Windows if using older debugging tools.  This is because recent versions of the [Windows Debugger](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) (>= version 10.0.18317.1001 of WinDbg or cdb) will load SOS automatically from the Microsoft extension gallery.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Installing SOS via the `dotnet-sos` tool is only needed on Linux or macOS.  It may also be needed Windows if you're using older debugging tools.  Recent versions of the [Windows Debugger](/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) (version 10.0.18317.1001 or later of WinDbg or cdb) load SOS automatically from the Microsoft extension gallery.  
```

## dotnet-sos install

> Installs the [SOS extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) locally for debugging .NET Core processes. On macOS and Linux, the .lldbinit file will be updated so that the extension automatically loads at lldb startup. If installing SOS on Windows with older debugging tools (< version 10.0.18317.1001), you will need to manually load the extension in WinDbg or cdb by running `.load %USERPROFILE%\.dotnet\sos\sos.dll` in the debugger.

Reviewer 3: This might want to be split into multiple paragraphs/sections to make it easy to quickly parse.  Also these implementation details might not be relevant to the documentation.

I am not sure this is placed correctly.  I suspect it belongs after the synopsis.  But I haven't looked at the style guide recently.

## dotnet-sos install

> Installs the [SOS extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) locally for debugging .NET Core processes. On macOS and Linux, the .lldbinit file will be updated so that the extension automatically loads at lldb startup. If installing SOS on Windows with older debugging tools (< version 10.0.18317.1001), you will need to manually load the extension in WinDbg or cdb by running `.load %USERPROFILE%\.dotnet\sos\sos.dll` in the debugger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installs the [SOS extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) locally for debugging .NET Core processes. On macOS and Linux, the *.lldbinit* file will be updated so that the extension automatically loads at lldb startup. If you're installing SOS on Windows with older debugging tools (prior to version 10.0.18317.1001), you will need to manually load the extension in WinDbg or cdb by running `.load %USERPROFILE%\.dotnet\sos\sos.dll` in the debugger.
```

## dotnet-sos uninstall

> Uninstalls the [SOS extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) and, if on Linux or macOS, removes it from lldb configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uninstalls the [SOS extension](sos-debugging-extension.md) and, on Linux and macOS, removes it from lldb configuration.
```
